= McBean

* http://github.com/flavorjones/mcbean
* http://mcbean.heroku.com/doc/index.html (rdocs)
* http://mcbean.heroku.com (live demo)

== Description

McBean can convert documents from one format to another. McBean currently supports:

* HTML
* Markdown (a subset)
* Textile (a subset)
* Creole (a subset)

with the help of Loofah, Nokogiri, RDiscount, RedCloth and Creole.

"You can't teach a Sneetch." -- Sylvester McMonkey McBean

== Features

* Transforms HTML into Markdown, and Markdown into HTML (with help from RDiscount).
* Transforms HTML into Textile, and Textile into HTML (with help from RedCloth).
* Transforms HTML into Creole, and Creole into HTML (with help from Creole).
* Textile <-> Markdown
* Textile <-> Creole
* Creole <-> Markdown
* Emitted HTML is sanitized (thanks to Loofah).
* Fancy-pants command line utility, "mcbean".

== Problems

* Only supports a limited subset of Markdown, Textile and Creole. Patches welcome.

== Synopsis

Wrap your document (which can be either a String or an IO object):

  mcbean = McBean.fragment your_html_fragment
or
  mcbean = McBean.document your_html_document
or
  mcbean = McBean.markdown your_markdown
or
  mcbean = McBean.textile your_textile
or
  mcbean = McBean.creole your_creole

And then generate the desired markup format:

  mcbean.to_html
  mcbean.to_markdown
  mcbean.to_textile
  mcbean.to_creole

Also, +mcbean+ provides a command-line utility installed into your gem path:

  $ mcbean --html="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Sneetches_and_Other_Stories" --to-markdown
  $ mcbean --markdown="treetop-1.4.2/doc/grammar_composition.markdown" --to-textile

You can try out McBean at the live demo site: http://mcbean.heroku.com

=== Side Note: Fragments vs Documents

Generally speaking, if you expect to have a DOCTYPE and a single root
\&lt;html\&gt; node, you have a *document*. If you don't expect to
have a single root node, you have a *fragment*.

== Requirements

* Loofah >= 0.4.7 (and thusly Nokogiri)
* RDiscount >= 1.6.0
* RedCloth >= 4.2.0
* Creole >= 0.3.7

== Install

* sudo gem install mcbean

== Shout Outs

Thanks to David Loren Parsons and Ryan Tomayko for RDiscount.

Thanks to Jason Garber for RedCloth.

Thanks to Lars Christensen and Daniel Mendler for Creole.

== License

(The MIT License)

Copyright (c) 2010 Mike Dalessio

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining
a copy of this software and associated documentation files (the
'Software'), to deal in the Software without restriction, including
without limitation the rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish,
distribute, sublicense, and/or sell copies of the Software, and to
permit persons to whom the Software is furnished to do so, subject to
the following conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be
included in all copies or substantial portions of the Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED 'AS IS', WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND,
EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF
MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.
IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY
CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT,
TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE
SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.
